Title: Practical gates by Majorana fermion motion

URL Source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2606.03916v1

Published Time: Wed, 03 Jun 2026 01:37:16 GMT

Number of Pages: 15

Markdown Content:
# Practical Fault-Tolerant Gates by Majorana Fermion Motion 

Yuri D. Lensky, Bryce Kobrin, Kostyantyn Kechedzhi, and Igor Aleiner 

Google Quantum AI 

Quantum error correction protocols protect against local errors by storing logical information non-locally. This poses a challenge: how to design efficient logical gates on the non-local “hidden” logical information, and how to implement these gates using the local physical operations. We develop a general description of planar Pauli stabilizer codes and protocols for logical operations in terms of point-like particles called Majorana fermions. Information is stored in the pairwise fermion parities of spatially separated Majorana fermions. The description in terms of Majorana fermions captures not only large distance asymptotics, but also all scales down to the lattice constants. We exploit this locality to densely pack logical information in spacetime. The simplest application is to a static case: dense memory. More importantly, we implement fault-tolerant Majorana motion and leverage this primitive to design braiding-based logical gates. This approach reduces space overhead of logical operations resulting in an improved logical error rate given fixed number of physical qubits. We illustrate a practical use of our approach by designing and benchmarking of 2-qubit Clifford gates. We find numerically that our protocol outperforms lattice surgery in this setting for near-term error rates and realistic device constraints. More generally, introduction of compact motion of Majorana fermions as an efficient computational primitive opens a promising new route for the design of low overhead error correction protocols. 

I. INTRODUCTION 

In the practical design of fault-tolerant computations, one encounters two complementary tasks: how to en-code information efficiently, and how to operate on the encoded information. QEC codes with low hardware overhead are realized with low-weight stabilizer mea-surements compiled into elementary one- and two-qubit gate and measurement operations. To facilitate this task, Kitaev proposed an asymptotic approach to fault-tolerant computation[1]: information is stored in fusion outcomes of non-Abelian anyons, while logical opera-tions are realized as motion of the anyons, implement-ing braids, fusion, and pair creation. In this work, we focus on designing paths for the anyon motion for spe-cific physical device, and compilation of the motion into hardware-specific circuits. Optimization of such paths and circuits is challenging. Our approach to these chal-lenges is based on a theoretical framework developed in [2]. It enables the construction and characterization of 2D Pauli codes solely from the locations of flux-bound Majorana fermions, which realize non-Abelian anyons in this setting. Therefore in our codes, motion, pair creation, and fusion of Majorana fermions realize fault-tolerant logical operations. A remarkable feature of our formalism is that asymp-totic properties are exact on the lattice [2]. The Ma-jorana fermions whose fusion outcomes form the logical Hilbert space are explicitly identified and localized to single physical qubits. Importantly, code distances can be determined with precision up to the lattice constant. Additionally, the Majorana fermions can be individu-ally manipulated. By combining these ingredients we are able to design compact braids which implement the full 2-qubit Clifford gate set fault-tolerantly. We will show that the resulting codes, motions, and overall protocols can be efficiently implemented on hard-ware designed for the standard surface code, scalable realizations of which were recently demonstrated in two different hardware platforms, superconducting qubits [3] and neutral atoms [4]. Another useful property of this construction is that errors can be decoded by the matching-based decoders used for the surface code [5]. This is because single-qubit Pauli errors create (at most) a pair of Abelian anyons [6] in both cases. In this sense our approach is backwards-compatible with the surface code, both at the level of hardware and software require-ments, as well as interpretation of existing protocols. In particular, the standard lattice surgery gate proto-cols for the surface code implement Pauli measurements in the logical space, and in our formalism these opera-tions can be understood as fusion of Majorana fermions. This is a special case of measuring the fusion outcome that does not require Majorana fermion motion to be fault tolerant. A natural next step would be to attempt to reduce the overhead necessary for such measurement-based computation. This could be done using the tech-niques we describe in this work, but the same analysis shows that there is an even lower overhead approach. Specifically, we use our formalism to include braiding and more generally Majorana fermion motion as an ad-ditional generator of logical operations. In this approach we exploit locality of Majorana fermions to increase en-coding rate by a finite factor compared to the surface code, and we exploit topological properties of anyon braiding to realize compact logical Clifford gates. Acombination of braiding and tightly packing the Majo-rana fermions results in improved scaling of logical error rate (of memory and Clifford gates) compared to lattice surgery. [7] To keep discussions concrete, we will focus on a very specific problem: implementing the full 2-qubit Clifford gateset. We present a specification of this protocol in terms of Majorana paths for devices with square-grid connectivity, and discuss circuit construction and scal-ing of the protocol for general error models. We provide 

> arXiv:2606.03916v1 [quant-ph] 2 Jun 2026

2a concrete implementation for an architecture with real-istic [3] constraints, and numerically benchmark this im-plementation with the widely used SI1000 error model. We compare fidelities with lattice surgery on devices of various sizes. We find that for a wide range of pa-rameters braiding-based protocols demonstrate higher fidelity Clifford gates compared to their alternative im-plementation through lattice surgery. Before describing our results in detail, we comment on the relationship of our work to prior results in the literature. It has long been understood (first identified in [8]) that there are certain “twist” or symmetry de-fects that can be embedded in the surface code that act as non-Abelian Ising anyons Bombin [9] and Kitaev and Kong [10]. This has motivated efforts to exploit the properties of these defects for computation [11–16]. However, a concrete general scheme for manipulating and using these anyons, suitable both for macroscopic protocol-design level and efficient circuit construction, has not been put forward. Moreover, concrete protocols for fault tolerant 2-qubit unitary gates suggested so far have been less qubit efficient than lattice surgery. In this work we address both problems, via a microscopic theory of the basic degrees of freedom for more general 2D Pauli codes (generalizing the non-Abelian anyons be-yond a symmetry defect to the fundamental particle).  

> II. MAJORANAS AS A MACROSCOPIC DEGREE OF FREEDOM

We start by describing the degrees of freedom which are relevant for error corrected memory and gates in 2D Pauli codes. We call these particles Majorana fermions (they will be formally introduced in the next section). We describe our protocols in terms of their locations in the plane. Memory design consists of laying out these particles in 2D. Logical Clifford gates, measurement, and initialization are implemented in terms of braids, fusions, and pair creations of the Majorana fermions, and their design consists of laying out paths for these particles in spacetime. Beyond a convenient visualization of protocols, this approach provides a rough heuristic for logical fidelty by bounding code distances. The bounds are sim-ply computed in terms of a graph (to be specified in more detail in the next section) on which the Majorana fermions are placed. The code distance on disk topol-ogy [17] is computed as the minimum of two lengths; 

ℓc = min {ℓW , ℓ H }. The length ℓW is the minimal graph distance between particles [18], which we will refer to as Wilson lines[19]. To compute ℓH , construct the short-est path γH through the dual lattice which (i) crosses an even number of edges of the original lattice, (ii) is either mounted on the boundaries or is a loop, and (iii) separates the particles into two nonempty groups. Then 

ℓH is (bounded below by) the smallest set of vertices V

such that every edge of γH touches a vertex of V . We will refer to such paths as ’t Hooft lines. Although the O(1) distances depend on the details of the graph, in certain cases it is useful to instead consider a fixed graph. This effectively fixes a metric for the two sorts of paths. This is often a good starting point for the design of a protocol. This is the case for the primary examples of this paper, where all the essential large-distance features are captured by metrics induced by a square grid. The induced metrics are a Manhattan metric for computing ℓW , and a π/ 4 rotated Manhattan metric ℓH .      

> X
> Z
> Y
> (a) Surface code single qubit memory.
> X1
> X2
> (b) Two qubit memory (c) Dense three qubit memory.
> FIG. 1. Several memories written in terms of Majorana fermions. The vertical dimension in all the figures is d(in the metric described in the main text), and is 2d(d) for Figs. 1b and 1c (Fig. 1a). The wavy lines are Wilson lines (see main text). A choice for which Pauli operator they correspond in the logical encoding is shown in Figs. 1a and 1b. All blue and yellow Wilson lines have the same length.

We demonstrate how the macroscopic properties of memories arise from these metrics by analyzing three examples. The number of logical qubits in these exam-ples turns out to be nσ /2 − 1, where nσ is the number of particles. The first example, Fig. 1a, is actually the standard surface code encoding a single logical qubit. The second example, Fig. 1b, has an extra logical qubit, and it is easy to check that it has the same code distance by using the metrics. The 3rd example, Fig. 1c, is more intriguing, and illustrates some key properties of these metrics that will be essential for our gate protocols. It has the same geometric dimensions as the second pic-ture (at fixed code distance d), but encodes 3 qubits. Note that if we had the Euclidean metric, the distance would be reduced to d/ √2. In fact, this is a maximally dense packing at distance d according to the metrics above, the fact apparently overlooked in the previous literature. For example, both Wilson lines shown are length d. It is denser than the first example by a factor of 3/2. The density can be further improved for encod-ings of more qubits by combining the dense packing of Majoranas with manifold topology (holes or handles). A complimentary paper Ref. [20] considered application 3of dense memory to reduce overhead of quantum simu-lation of chemistry. Particle motion is a sufficient primitive to implement the full logical Clifford gateset fault-tolerantly. We fo-cus on braiding, which generates the Clifford group on 2 logical qubits in the setup of Fig. 1b. We aim to optimize logical gate fidelty. This optimization is fun-damentally device-specific. To simplify it, we focus on several heirarchies of distances (which are correlated to the logical fidelity). The most detailed is a “circuit-level” distance. In this section we instead discuss a simpler upper bound on this distance that is constructed as fol-lows. We represent the particle motion as a sequence of snapshots of particle locations in time. We only allow the particles to move a finite distance between snap-shots. The bound is the smallest distance amongst the snapshots. We would like to have as dense an encoding in each snapshot as possible, while leaving enough room to perform logical operations. Our approach is to first optimize the upper bound, then attempt to saturate it.  

> 1
> 2
> 34
> 5
> FIG. 2. Path of a distance-preserving braid in the space of 2 qubit memory Fig. 1b, i.e. 2 surface code patches. The steps can be broken up in order as shown, but in fact they can also be partially parallelized while preserving the distance.

We demonstrate a solution of this optimization prob-lem in the case that illustrates all the key difficulties: implementing the full Clifford gateset on 2 logical qubits in presence of boundaries. Specifically, we choose paths for the motions that implement the gates while maxi-mizing code distance, and provide concrete circuits that implement these motions. As an example, say that we wish to exchange the two particles on the left shown Fig. 1b, while keeping them as far as possible. Even if we had the Euclidean metric, we might choose the path shown Fig. 2. The distance would be reduced from 

d → d/ √2. The Manhattan metrics for the two types of paths induced by the square grid suggests that in fact the braid is distance-preserving, and therefore op-timal (as far as code distance). To generate the full Clifford group, one additionally needs either the swap of a horizontal pair, or a cyclic permutation of 4 Majo-ranas. There is a simpler bulk braid (which would be the primary operation in a larger system), however addi-tional braids are needed to generate the logical Clifford group. Note that in the absence of boundaries it is suf-ficient to increase the spacing between densely packed particles by O(1) to allow sufficient room for distance preserving braiding. This suggests one possible route to architecture with reduced physical qubit count. In the remainder of this paper, we elaborate on the mi-croscopic theory and demonstrate concrete circuits that implement this braid achieving the distance d.We can also discuss the scaling of the procedure in time, still as a function of code distance. It is clear that the leading scaling is ∝ d, with the prefactor determined by how quickly the Majorana fermions can be moved. Define vσ so that in time d/v σ we can move a distance 

d (while preserving the code distance). Then the pref-actor can be made at most (2 + 1) /v σ by parallelizing the motion. The optimization of vσ and details of paral-lelization is architecture- and error-model specific, and we leave the detailed analysis of this to future work. Finally, measurement and initialization are imple-mented by pair annihilation and creation, respectively. The fundamental primitive is still Majorana fermion motion. We note that the effect of distance on fidelity of processes involving pair creation or annihilation is more complicated, but in the most important practical cases the relevant distance is the minimal one between the particles other than the pair being created or annihi-lated.  

> III. MAJORANA FERMIONS AS MICROSCOPIC DEGREES OF FREEDOM

The purpose of this Section is to microscopically jus-tify the classical heuristics described in Sec. II. The re-sults are based on Ref. [2] and summary of minimum necessary details is included in Appendix. The main result is the prescription how to compute microscopic lengths of Wilson and ’t Hooft lines and explain their significance for arbitrary planar lattices. As we will see it is useful to consider lattices that differ from the square lattice by local rearrangement of bonds. We start by describing the fundamental degrees of freedom: Majorana fermions, denoted σ. They are fun-damental in the sense that all other excitations dis-cussed in the context of toric code e, m and ε are emer-gent from σ.Majorana fermions have the fusion rule 

σ × σ = 1 + ε, (1) where the fermion ε is essentially defined by this rule. Information can be stored in the fusion outcomes of pairs of Majorana fermions, meaning that a pair Ma-jorana fermions act in a two dimensional Hilbert space that can be labeled by presence or absence of the fermion ε.Our immediate goal is to reduce the description of a system of n qubits to the nσ ≪ n Majorana fermions of Section II. This is accomplished by viewing the en-tire system as 4n Majorana fermions, subject to two kinds of local (gauge) constraints. Each is associated to a gauge field, which we label Z(K)2 and Z(S)2 . The Majo-rana fermions are non-Abelian because they are charged 4            

> Z
> Z
> X
> X
> qubit
> ZX
> ZX
> FIG. 3. Outline of the steps of the Majorana embedding, described in more detail in [2]. First, a set of arrowed tetrahedra for nqubits is actually a diagrammatic representation of a specific embedding of their Hilbert space into that of 4nMajorana fermions. Majorana bilinears associated to a single qubit, shown with colors here and elsewhere, are images of Pauli operators under this embedding. This requires a choice of ordering on the bilinears, represented as arrows in the picture. The choice of such arrows gives rise to a background gauge field we call Z(K)2.The systematic procedure for choosing a gauge and physical consequences of this gauge field are discussed in [2], and for clarity we suppress arrows in following pictures. Disjoint Majorana bilinears commute, and the constraint associated to the embedding given by the tetrahedra is that bilinears of the same color represent the same operator. In the Majorana language, this is a gauge constraint fixing the fermion parity at each site. More general bilinears (which may include bilinears on the same qubit) are shown as black edges. A collection of disjoint black edges, or Majorana dimers, is a Majorana graph. Such bilinears are in general not invariant under the parity constraint. They are parallel transport operators for a gauge field we call Z(S)2[2]. The rightmost picture shows the Majorana graph for a distance 3 surface code. Products of black edge operators around loops measure Z(S)2fluxes and correspond to the standard stabilizers of this code.

and bound to flux of Z(K)2 . Errors are detected as fluxes of Z(S)2 .It is simplest to describe these constraints diagramat-ically, and for this purpose we introduce a Majorana graph. We follow the sequence shown in Fig. 3 (see [2] for more details on the formal structure). First, we assign 4 Majorana fermions to each qubit, and the first gauge constraint is to fix the parity sector to be even for each such group. Majorana bilinears on a single qubit (shown with colors in Fig. 3 and elsewhere) are gauge-invariant and satisfy a Pauli algebra on each qubit. The Majorana graph is a collection of dimers between these Majorana fermions, shown as black edges in Fig. 3 and elsewhere. They are parallel transport operators for the field Z(S)2 (so are not gauge invariant if they go between different qubits). Therefore, products of dimers around loops measure the fluxes of Z(S)2 . Since dimers do not share Majorana fermions they commute individually, and therefore all loops commute with each other. They act as Pauli strings in the gauge invari-ant space and form a basis of a Pauli stabilizer code. In the no-flux sector for Z(S)2 , the gauge-invariant out-comes of fusion of the Majorana dimers are fixed to 1,see [2]. Although there are 4n Majorana fermions, only undimerized Majorana fermions, nσ , can encode logical qubits. Therefore on a disk topology [21], the code has 

max  nσ 

> 2

− 1, 0 logical qubits. This is just the even parity sector of the fusion outcomes of pairings of the 

nσ undimerized Majorana fermions. For the rest of the paper, when we refer to Majorana fermions, we are refer-ring to the undimerized ones unless explicitly indicated otherwise. For brevity, we will state results only for the disk topologies. The code protects information by separating the Ma-jorana fermions. To quantify this statement, we proceed to describe the action of Pauli errors and how to bound the code distance, as well as derive the metrics from Section II. Detectable errors simply create different com-binations of ε fusion outcomes for dimerized pairs, de-tectable as fluxes of the Z(S)2 gauge field. We first discuss the situation away from any boundary or σ. The code is then locally the toric code, which is often discussed in terms of the fusion outcome ε, and the emergent e, m 

excitations. We describe it using the fundamental de-grees of freedom of the Majorana code, the Majorana fermions and their fusion outcomes 1, ε .Changing the fusion outcome associated to a single dimerized pair from 1 to ε flips the contribution of the dimer between them to the Z(S)2 stabilizer loops. There-fore, a single ε is locally represented by a pair of edge-adjacent Z(S)2 fluxes. Fermion parity is a gauge con-straint, so (away from any σ) gauge-invariant operators can only create pairs of ε. At a boundary, the only dif-ference is that the fusion outcome of a boundary dimer is detected by only one flux. This is in principle a com-plete description of the action of Pauli errors on Majo-rana graph states, away from any σ: Pauli errors flip an even number of black links, on which the ε live. They can be written as products of Wilson lines which end on the ε (see Fig. 4 and [2]). Isolated ε (away from boundaries and σ) are detected as pairs of Z(S)2 fluxes. Single fluxes can be separated by utilizing a standard object in lattice gauge theories: the ’t Hooft line. They are lines through the dual lat-tice, and formally correspond to flips of the gauge fields on the links they pass through. The fermion parity con-straint forces ’t Hooft lines to pass through an even num-ber of links to be gauge-invariant. They are operators which create single-flux excitations at their ends, which are in some contexts called e, m excitations. More gen-erally, a state with only a pair of separated Z(S)2 fluxes is just a state with many fermions along the ’t Hooft 5         

> Z
> Z
> Z
> ε
> FIG. 4. An example code where code distance is determined by the ’t Hooft line shown in green, that is shorter than the Wilson line shown in blue. Pauli Zlabel errors that correspond to the ’t Hooft line. Following the rules of Sec. II we determine that ℓH= 3 whereas ℓW= 5 .We also show an example Wilson line in red, which has one end on an undimerized Majorana fermion and another on a dimerized one. The procedure for writing Wilson lines as Pauli strings is detailed in [2].

line connecting them. As we discussed in Section II, we optimize for logi-cal fidelity by first optimizing the code distance. We now discuss the computation of code distance in terms of Wilson and ’t Hooft lines. Formally, code distance is the minimal weight of the logical operator. The mo-tivation of such a definition is that such an operator produces an undetectable logical error. The important logical operators in our case have two interpretations: ε

transfer between two σ, typically by Wilson lines, and ’t Hooft loops around even numbers of σ.Wilson lines that end on an undimerized Majorana 

σ just flip the fusion channels involving σ; microscop-ically, this is because there is no black edge touching 

σ. Wilson lines between the Majoranas generate the logical Paulis, and therefore the shortest Wilson lines between the undimerized Majorana fermions furnish an upper bound on the support of the lowest weight logi-cal operator. We think of such undetectable errors as a transfer of ε between Majorana fermions. The total fusion outcome parity of an even number of Majoranas can also be detected by braiding a Z(S)2 flux around the group. The shortest such braids are usually generated by ’t Hooft loops. These are typically longer than the shortest Wilson lines in the bulk. In practice, ’t Hooft lines are most important in the presence of boundaries, where one also needs to check the ’t Hooft lines which start and end on boundaries and separate the Majorana fermions into even nonempty subsets. For many common graph geometries, it is sufficient to check only a few special cases to bound the code dis-tance. For bulk Majoranas (i.e. away from any bound-ary) the lowest weight Pauli strings flipping its fusion channels are indeed Wilson lines, even if they are con-necting to Majoranas near a boundary. For Majoranas near a boundary, one should also check ’t Hooft lines, see example Fig. 4. This is the sense in which the low- 

> FIG. 5. Majorana graph for a small instance of dense mem-ory. Blue and yellow lines show Wilson line undetectable errors, see Fig. 1(c).

est weight of an undetectable error is set by Majorana separation. An immediate consequence of these rules is the pair of metrics for Wilson and ’t Hooft lines used for the square grid in Section II. A detailed example for the dense memory Fig. 1c is shown in Fig. 5. To summarize, we are able to understand the proper-ties of a timeslice of the Majorana codes solely by the positions of the undimerized Majoranas. The role of mi-croscopics is only in the details of how to measure the lengths of Wilson lines and single-flux trajectories. It is straightforward to draw some representative Majorana graphs for given positions of the Majorana fermions and boundaries. For any particular graph it is efficient to compute the shortest Wilson lines and logical ’t Hooft lines. To first approximation, for locally square graphs we take a Manhattan distance aligned with the graph to set the lengths of Wilson lines. For ’t Hooft lines, we also take a Manhattan distance in the same setting, but now between the appropriate plaquettes.  

> IV. MOVING MAJORANA FERMIONS FAULT-TOLERANTLY

Turning Fig. 2 into a fault-tolerant gate requires op-erations to move the Majoranas, described in more de-tail below, as well as circuits to measure the stabilizers as the Majoranas move. It is therefore important to understand how to choose concrete circuits for moving Majorana fermions and measuring the stabilizers, while maintaining code distance. First, we point out that there are two natural ways to move anyons. One is simply by a unitary which swaps particle positons; for lattice Majorana fermions, for the swap α ↔ βU± = exp 



∓ π

4 αβ 



, U ±βU †± = ∓α, U ±αU †± = ±β. 

(2) For our Majorana fermions, gauge invariant swaps are actually generated by the Wilson line connecting these 6Majorana fermions, as shown in Fig. 6. They are a transition from one Majorana graph to another, and will not create Z(S)2 fluxes in the absence of errors[22]. This            

> U−
> ZaXb
> 12
> FIG. 6. Representative Wilson line generating the motion of the Majorana fermion from position 1 to position 2. Adapted from [2]. As detailed in [2], this Wilson line should be exponentiated with particular sign to swap the Majorana fermions without creating Z(S)2flux. The gauge invariant swap corresponding to Eq. (2) in this case is exp  iπ
> 4ZaXb
> .

sort of anyon motion (and indeed unprotected braiding) has been demonstrated experimentally [23]. We refer to this as “isentropic” motion. All that needs to be done to make this process protected is to construct circuits to measure stabilizers concurrently with the motion. This can be done immediately after each Majorana fermion is moved to the desired location, or merged with the motion circuit itself. There is another way to move anyons, familiar from the Abelian case and mentioned above. As shown in Fig. 7, one way to move an anyon is to pair-create many particle-antiparticle pairs along its path. This can be done in O(1) time. Then, one can annihilate the pairs, offset by 1 site. If all the pairs fuse to the vacuum, we have successfully moved the particle to the endpoint of the path. This is always the case for Abelian anyons. For Majoranas, we may find ε or 1, with equal prob-ability, left as outcomes of the fusion along the path. Rather than giving up if we find ε, we can simply fuse them back into the Majorana at the end of the chain. Then the process is the same as though all the fusion outcomes had been the vacuum. This implements the motion from the start to the end of the chain. We com-ment on a few practical details. One may also wonder how it is that we can move a particle that carries in-formation apparently instantaneously. There are two caveats. One is that we must communicate the fusion outcomes over at least the same distance (this highlights the difference to Abelian anyons, which can move in-stantly but carry no information). Additionally, in the presence of measurement errors we must make repeated measurements of the fusion outcomes (scaling with d)to maintain code distance and performance. Using the length calculations of the previous section we see that virtual particle motion has the same dis-tance properties as isentropic motion. Namely, one can just follow the paths (e.x. Fig. 2) of isentropic motion, and if those paths are distance preserving, so will be a virtual particle motion that follows the same paths. For this conclusion to be valid, it is crucial that during the virtual particle motion it is specifically pairs of Z(S)2

fluxes, ε, that are randomly created.  

> V. SYNDROME EXTRACTION FOR MAJORANA GRAPHS

Next, we comment on the problem of stabilizer mea-surement: we must measure stabilizers to maintain fault-tolerance (and additional measurements to learn the fusion outcomes if we are using virtual particle mo-tion), both in static configurations and as Majorana fermions are moving. Circuits to measure square sta-bilizers with square grid connectivity are commonly used in the surface code. As can be seen from Fig. 5, undimerized bulk Majorana fermions result in non-square Majorana graphs with stabilizers of weight greater than four. Finite depth circuits for measuring stabilizers of a general shape for a device with square grid connectivity are shown in Fig. 8. We aim to eval-uate the effect of syndrome extraction circuits for such stabilizers on the code distance. Let us assume we have computed the distances of the paths and static configurations, as described in Sec-tions II and III, to be d. Given a local error model and connectivity, the existence of some finite-depth com-bined motion and syndrome extraction circuit for the braids above, such that the process has some finite dis-tance ∝ d, follows from the general considerations of Sections II to IV. It is essentially a consequence of the locality (and therefore finite weight) of stabilizers. To prove that the process distance is actually d−O(1) 

(rather than just ∝ d) requires accounting for many de-tails of a particular device (most importantly the error model and connectivity), as well as error propagation under specific stabilizer measurement and motion cir-cuits. There are methods for optimizing such circuits to particular hardware constraints and error models. One can also analytically prove existence of circuits that do not reduce code distance under weak assumptions. We leave the discussion of these general methods to a future work. Here, we illustrate the utility of the Majorana-based approach in a specific example. Many error mod-els have 2-qubit noise channels applied to qubits after they undergo 2-qubit gates. As shown in Fig. 9, if each 2-qubit error counts as a single elementary error such an error pattern can cut the effective length of a Wilson line, and therefore the code distance, in half. The pat-tern shown in Fig. 9 appears in even the standard sur-face code syndrome extraction circuit; it is not distance reducing since the Majorana fermions at opposite cor-ners are twice as far from each other as they are to their nearest neighbors. Circuits with Majorana fermions in the bulk must be designed to avoid such errors to avoid cutting the code distance by some fraction. The mit-igation from the perspective of the Majorana graph is clear; one must design circuits such that intermediate 7

# ε ε  

> FIG. 7. Virtual particle motion for Majorana fermions. We move the Majorana fermion at the top middle to the location indicated by the dashed line. The blue lines indicate the Majorana fermion pairs created from vacuum, 1. They are fused in the pairs indicated by the red lines. These fusion outcomes are random; on the right, we show a scenario where two of the fusions result in ε.

Majorana graphs do not have Wilson lines aligned with 2-qubit gate layers as in Fig. 9. We employ this mitiga-tion in our circuits and do not suffer fractional distance reductions due to such errors. In Section VII, we show an existence proof for a sys-tem with several realistic constraints: concrete circuits for an architecture inspired by superconducting proces-sors with square-grid connectivity and where only cer-tain “ancilla” qubits have readout and reset operations. These circuits have a code distance d when implemented using 4d2 + O(d) qubits.  

> VI. ASYMPTOTIC COMPARISON TO LATTICE SURGERY

A practical figure of merit for a gate protocol is the logical gate fidelity at fixed physical resources. In par-ticular, we fix the number of physical qubits and device error model[24] So far, we have given results in terms of the code distance. The code distance is a useful proxy since fidelities are expected to have the leading (in code distance, or equivalently number of qubits) behaviour 

LER ∼ c[d(n)]Λ −⌊ d(n)+1 2 ⌋ (3) for some model-dependent constant Λ and subleading behaviour captured by c. In this work, the logical error rate LER refers to 1 − F , where F is the average-state gate fidelity. The parameter Λ and function c are sensi-tive to the details of the gate schedules. To see if there is a scaling advantage for a particular family of devices and error models between two protocols, we would have to compute (or bound) Λ for each protocol. We leave this to future work. Here, we simply point out that if one is comparing two protocols α, β with distances dα(n) > d β (n), a natural figure of merit is 

ηβ→α = lim  

> n→∞

1 − dβ (n)/d α(n). (4) The first-order expectation is that since ηβ→α > 0, it is advantageous to use protocol α. One may ask how the details of protocol implementation affect relative perfor-mance. The local differences between protocols (number of layers between measurement cycles, stabilizer size, etc) are captured by the ratio Λα/Λβ . For many error models, this ratio is at most weakly dependent on the scales of local error rates. We have that 

LER α/LER β ∼

h

(Λ α/Λβ )Λ ηβ→α

> β

i−dα(n)/2

, (5) so there is a scaling advantage to protocol α (which grows exponentially in code distance) as long as 

Λα/Λβ > Λ−ηβ→α 

> β

. (6) Note this condition itself becomes exponentially weaker as the device parameters improve, so one can afford to lose quite a significant amount of Λα.A leading protocol for gates in surface-code encoded qubits is lattice surgery. In these scheme, the only fun-damental operations at the logical level are initializa-tion and Pauli measurement. This uses only the fusion algebra of the Majorana fermions. Such a scheme re-quires a logical ancilla to perform unitary gates. The corresponding description for the protocol shown here is that the fundamental logical operations are all uni-tary, which we achieve by using the braiding algebra of the Majorana fermions. The space advantage (at fixed distance) of the braiding protocol shown here arises sim-ply from the detailed analysis of the Majorana fermions presented above, and rests on two key aspects. We re-move the need for a logical ancilla by using the braiding statistics, and pack the braid as tightly as possible ac-cording to the Majorana distance discussed in Section II. The final result is that a distance d gate is achievable with 4d2 +O(d) qubits by braiding, while lattice surgery requires 6d2 + O(d). This means 

ηLS →B = 1 − p2/3 ≈ 0.184 . (7) We will show numerical evidence that for certain error models and schedules 

ΛB/ΛLS > Λ−ηLS →B 

> LS

, (8) 8

12

34

> (a) 4 qubit stabilizer measurement.

12

34

1, 5

2, 4

> (b) 5 qubit stabilizer measurement.

12

45 2, 6

1, 7

3, 5

> (c) 6 qubits stabilizer measurement.

FIG. 8. Example stabilizer measurement circuits for Ma-jorana graphs on devices with square grid connectivity and only certain “ancilla” qubits that can be measured (and when one ancilla is measured, all ancillae must be measured). In Fig. 8a, to introduce the notation we show the standard cir-cuit for a surface code plaquette. Each gate is indicated by a line with two bars. The number in the center says in which parallel layer of gates that particular gate occurs. The colors of the bars (see Fig. 3) indicate which controlled Pauli gate is done. Explicitly, if a gate goes between qubit a, b with Pauli colors corresponding to σa, σ b, the gate corresponding to the bar is exp i π 

> 4

(1 − σa)(1 − σb). For example, all the gates in Fig. 8a are CNOT . The circuit is interpreted as using the ancilla qubit as a register for an addition opera-tion from each qubit in the stabilizer. In Fig. 8b, we show a 5-cycle measurement of a 5-qubit stabilizer. The circuit is constructed by using the right ancilla as a register for the “value” of the upper right qubit, transfering it to the central qubit, and finally to the left ancilla. Then the additions into the right ancilla are undone by applying the gates in reverse order. This circuit commutes with the original 5-qubit sta-bilizer, which can be desireable for technical convenience. If we do not require the Majorana graph to return precisely to its original structure (but still measure all ancillas), the measurement can be done in 4 layers by excluding the gate indicated by the red rectangle. In either case, measuring the left ancilla gives the value of the stabilizer, while mea-suring the right ancilla flags an error. We emphasize that these circuits and gate orderings are just specific examples; to optimize code distance, depth, and eventually logical er-ror rate the choice of circuit and gate ordering must be made carefully. We illustrate the flexibility of such constructions to make these optimizations by arranging that the gates are applied between the left 4 stabilizer qubits and left ancilla in the same relative order. 

and moreover that the functions c are such that even naive implementations of a braiding protocol are ad-vantageous already at small code distances. 

FIG. 9. Fermion error analysis. The support of an error channel immediately after a 2-qubit gate layer is shown in green. 

VII. NUMERICS 

We move on to numerical benchmarks of a simple im-plementation of a fault-tolerant braiding gate: we follow steps 2-4 of the path Fig. 2. This is a typical gate, since the Majorana configuration is the same at the start and end. If this gate were part of a larger circuit, we may also need to perform one or both of steps 1 and 5, but for the minimal example we do not. We utilize virtual par-ticle motion for technical convenience. In order to show-case both the flexibility of our approach and the suit-ability for near-term devices, we consider realistic, but rigid constraints on connectivity and qubit operations. Our device model is motivated by the recent realization of beyond break-even surface code memory in a simi-lar setting [3]. In particular, we take nearest-neighbor connectivity on the square lattice for 2-qubit gates. We only allow measure and reset operations on the A sub-lattice, and call these the “ancilla” qubits. Moreover, on every measurement all ancilla qubits must be measured. We consider an error model called SI1000 . The details of this error model are in [25]. At a high level, after every 2 qubit operation we apply a depolarizing channel on those 2 qubits with some parameter. After every 1 qubit operation we apply a depolarizing channel on that qubit. The circuit is divided into parallel layers, and in each layer the identity operation counts for a single-qubit operation (this is called “idle” error). To provide a baseline, we compare to a minimal gate by lattice surgery under the same error model, with the same device constraints. Note that we chose our con-straints so that they are already satisfied by standard lattice surgery circuits. The comparison is done by sam-pling errors using STIM [26] and decoding by PyMatch-ing [27]. Stabilizer configurations after each virtual particle motion step Fig. 7 are shown in Fig. 11. These are not optimal stabilizer configurations, but lend themselves to simple stabilizer measurement circuits. The logical error rates shown in Fig. 12 provide numerical confir-mation for the theoretical discussions of the previous sections, as well as estimates of comparison to lattice 9

> FIG. 10. Left: qubit layout for lattice surgery. Right: qubit layout and Majorana fermion trajectories for braiding.
> FIG. 11. Stabilizer configurations of an unoptimized virtual particle-based braid, following steps 1-5 of Fig. 2. Time order is left-to-right, top to bottom. Majorana locations are indicated with red dots. Triangular stabilizers are 2-qubit stabilizers at the vertices of their long end. A simple circuit to implement a braid using this sequence of codes is benchmarked in Fig. 12.

surgery for small devices. Although we have not op-timized the circuits or stabilizer configurations, we al-ready find evidence Eq. (8) is satisfied, so that there is an exponential scaling advantage in logical fidelity. Moreover, we see that the performance even at small sizes favors braiding as well for certain operations and low enough error rates. One may wonder how would the most resource de-manding gate by braiding compare to the typical. In the geometry of Fig. 2 the swap of two Majorana fermions at the boundary is such most demanding gate corresponds to steps 1-5. Comparison of the two gates is shown in Fig. 12.  

> VIII. CONCLUSION

In conclusion, we demonstrated that macroscopic Ma-jorana degrees of freedom are a powerful and versatile tool for the analysis of the local and global building blocks of fault-tolerant quantum computation in 2D. It allows for optimization and code distance analysis of fault-tolerant memories and gates. We studied and microscopically justified macroscopic properties of Majorana graphs. Using our approach, we designed a fault-tolerant protocol for the logical 2-qubit Clifford group. Macroscopically, the fundamental prim-itives and sources of advantage for our protocols are the braiding statistics and packing properties of Majorana fermions. Lucid connection of our method to geometry and packing of Majorana fermions makes the interde-pendence between dense memory and braiding immedi-ate. Leveraging the dense packing gives a dense mem-ory; more importantly, we use this example to illustrate that there is room to braid the Majorana fermions in the space of 2 surface code patches. To understand the performance of such gates, we argue that they outper-form lattice surgery for a wide range of error models and other device constraints. Numerically, we confirm that even unoptimized protocols on constrained devices are superior at large system sizes, and find advantage even for small systems. 10 12 14 16 18 20 22 24 26 28             

> 10 6
> 10 5
> 10 4
> 10 3
> 10 2
> 10 1
> Type
> Typical braiding geometry
> Lattice surgery
> Type
> Typical braiding geometry
> Lattice surgery
> 12 14 16 18 20 22 24
> Type
> Typical braiding geometry
> Worst case braiding
> Type
> Typical braiding geometry
> Worst case braiding
> Number of qubits
> 1
> 3
> 4
> 5
> 7
> 10
> 13
> 3
> 4
> 5
> 7
> 10
> 13

FIG. 12. The gate fidelity (or LER ) for a simple virtual particle-based braiding gate (square points) as a function of the (square root) of the number of qubits. Different colors correspond to different error rate parameters in SI1000 . We summarize the rate parameters by numerically computing Λμ from Eq. (3) for a standard surface code memory experiment using the same error model and decoder. We recover the common relationship that Λμ = p0/p , where p is the parameter of SI1000 and 

p0 ≈ 5.3 × 10 −3. Lines are a guide to the eye. Lattice surgery error rates are shown using circles. 

Our construction provides a basis for analysis of Pauli codes, both in 2 and higher dimensions (for example re-configurable atom arrays or modular superconducting architectures). More generally, we expect application of our topological approach to dynamic and static codes will open a new route for the co-design of fault-tolerant protocols, quantum computer architectures, and compi-lation of fault-tolerant computations (say to braids and fusions). 

[1] A. Y. Kitaev, Fault-tolerant quantum computation by anyons, Annals of Physics 303 , 2 (2003), arXiv:quant-ph/9707021. [2] Y. D. Lensky, K. Kechedzhi, I. Aleiner, and E.-A. Kim, Graph gauge theory of mobile non-Abelian anyons in a qubit stabilizer code, Annals of Physics 452 , 169286 (2023). [3] Google Quantum AI and Collaborators, Quantum error correction below the surface code threshold, 638 , 920. [4] D. Bluvstein, S. J. Evered, A. A. Geim, S. H. Li, H. Zhou, T. Manovitz, S. Ebadi, M. Cain, M. Kalinowski, D. Hangleiter, J. P. Bonilla Ataides, N. Maskara, I. Cong, X. Gao, P. Sales Ro-driguez, T. Karolyshyn, G. Semeghini, M. J. Gullans, M. Greiner, V. Vuletić, and M. D. Lukin, Logical quan-tum processor based on reconfigurable atom arrays, Na-ture 626 , 58–65 (2023). [5] E. Dennis, A. Kitaev, A. Landahl, and J. Preskill, Topological quantum memory, Journal of Mathemati-cal Physics 43 , 4452 (2002). [6] The e, m, ε anyons of the surface code [5]. [7] The construction of compact braids contradicts the con-clusions of Ref. [28]. However, this reference discussed braiding of defects rather than point-like Majorana fermions. The former apparently requires significantly larger overhead. [8] A. Kitaev, Anyons in an exactly solved model and be-yond, Annals of Physics 321 , 2 (2006), arXiv:cond-mat/0506438. [9] H. Bombin, Topological Order with a Twist: Ising Anyons from an Abelian Model, Physical Review Let-ters 105 , 030403 (2010), arXiv:1004.1838 [cond-mat, physics:hep-th, physics:quant-ph]. [10] A. Kitaev and L. Kong, Models for gapped boundaries and domain walls, Communications in Mathematical Physics 313 , 351 (2012), arXiv:1104.5047 [cond-mat]. [11] M. Barkeshli, C.-M. Jian, and X.-L. Qi, Theory of de-fects in Abelian topological states, Physical Review B 

88 , 235103 (2013). [12] Y.-Z. You and X.-G. Wen, Projective non-Abelian Statistics of Dislocation Defects in a Z_N Rotor Model, Physical Review B 86 , 161107 (2012), arXiv:1204.0113 [cond-mat, physics:quant-ph]. [13] M. B. Hastings and A. Geller, Reduced space-time and time costs using dislocation codes and arbitrary ancillas (2015), arXiv:1408.3379 [quant-ph]. 11 

[14] A. Benhemou, J. K. Pachos, and D. E. Browne, Non-Abelian statistics with mixed-boundary punctures on the toric code, arXiv:2103.08381 [quant-ph] (2021), arXiv:2103.08381 [quant-ph]. [15] H. Zheng, A. Dua, and L. Jiang, Demonstrating non-Abelian statistics of Majorana fermions using twist defects, Physical Review B 92 , 245139 (2015), arXiv:1508.04166. [16] B. J. Brown, K. Laubscher, M. S. Kesselring, and J. R. Wootton, Poking holes and cutting corners to achieve Clifford gates with the surface code, Physical Review X 7, 021029 (2017), arXiv:1609.04673 [cond-mat, physics:quant-ph]. [17] In other topologies, one has to account for additional paths of both types that wrap handles, holes, or go be-tween boundaries. [18] As we will see in Section III, counted as the number of vertices along the path. [19] In [2], it was important to distinguish between 2 types of Wilson lines, while we will only be concerned with 1 type. When we refer to Wilson lines in this work, we are referring to what are called “augmented” Wil-son lines in [2]. The “unaugmented” Wilson lines are the conventional parallel transport operators, whereas “aug-mented” Wilson lines are gauge-invariant (since they are either loops or terminated by matter fields). [20] G. H. Low, W. J. Huggins, D. W. Berry, T. Khattar, A. F. White, N. C. Rubin, and R. Babbush, A denser planar surface code, (2026), arXiv:2605.30455 [quant-ph]. [21] If we embed in a general manifold M and only take topologically trivial loops as stabilizers, the number of logical qubits scales as ∼ nσ /2−χ(M ) with O(1) correc-tions (related to threaded Majorana “fluxes”) discussed in Ref. [2]. [22] In the absence of coherent errors it is not important that we make the choice that does not create flux, only that we know whether or not we did. [23] T. I. Andersen, Y. D. Lensky, K. Kechedzhi, I. K. Drozdov, A. Bengtsson, S. Hong, A. Morvan, X. Mi, A. Opremcak, R. Acharya, R. Allen, M. Ansmann, F. Arute, K. Arya, A. Asfaw, J. Atalaya, R. Babbush, D. Bacon, J. C. Bardin, G. Bortoli, A. Bourassa, J. Bo-vaird, L. Brill, M. Broughton, B. B. Buckley, D. A. Buell, T. Burger, B. Burkett, N. Bushnell, Z. Chen, B. Chiaro, D. Chik, C. Chou, J. Cogan, R. Collins, P. Conner, W. Courtney, A. L. Crook, B. Curtin, D. M. Debroy, A. Del Toro Barba, S. Demura, A. Dunsworth, D. Eppens, C. Erickson, L. Faoro, E. Farhi, R. Fatemi, V. S. Ferreira, L. F. Burgos, E. Forati, A. G. Fowler, B. Foxen, W. Giang, C. Gidney, D. Gilboa, M. Giustina, R. Gosula, A. G. Dau, J. A. Gross, S. Habegger, M. C. Hamilton, M. Hansen, M. P. Harrigan, S. D. Harring-ton, P. Heu, J. Hilton, M. R. Hoffmann, T. Huang, A. Huff, W. J. Huggins, L. B. Ioffe, S. V. Isakov, J. Iveland, E. Jeffrey, Z. Jiang, C. Jones, P. Juhas, D. Kafri, T. Khattar, M. Khezri, M. Kieferová, S. Kim, A. Kitaev, P. V. Klimov, A. R. Klots, A. N. Korotkov, F. Kostritsa, J. M. Kreikebaum, D. Landhuis, P. Laptev, K.-M. Lau, L. Laws, J. Lee, K. W. Lee, B. J. Lester, A. T. Lill, W. Liu, A. Locharla, E. Lucero, F. D. Malone, O. Martin, J. R. McClean, T. McCourt, M. McEwen, K. C. Miao, A. Mieszala, M. Mohseni, S. Montazeri, E. Mount, R. Movassagh, W. Mruczkiewicz, O. Naa-man, M. Neeley, C. Neill, A. Nersisyan, M. New-man, J. H. Ng, A. Nguyen, M. Nguyen, M. Y. Niu, T. E. O’Brien, S. Omonije, A. Petukhov, R. Pot-ter, L. P. Pryadko, C. Quintana, C. Rocque, N. C. Rubin, N. Saei, D. Sank, K. Sankaragomathi, K. J. Satzinger, H. F. Schurkus, C. Schuster, M. J. Shearn, A. Shorter, N. Shutty, V. Shvarts, J. Skruzny, W. C. Smith, R. Somma, G. Sterling, D. Strain, M. Szalay, A. Torres, G. Vidal, B. Villalonga, C. V. Heidweiller, T. White, B. W. K. Woo, C. Xing, Z. J. Yao, P. Yeh, J. Yoo, G. Young, A. Zalcman, Y. Zhang, N. Zhu, N. Zo-brist, H. Neven, S. Boixo, A. Megrant, J. Kelly, Y. Chen, V. Smelyanskiy, E.-A. Kim, I. Aleiner, and P. Roushan, Non-abelian braiding of graph vertices in a supercon-ducting processor, Nature 618 , 264–269 (2023). [24] As discussed below, we actually add additional restric-tions, such as readout only on certain “ancilla” qubits and square grid connectivity, which are already satisfied by lattice surgery. [25] C. Gidney, M. Newman, A. Fowler, and M. Broughton, A Fault-Tolerant Honeycomb Memory, Quantum 5, 605 (2021). [26] C. Gidney, Stim: a fast stabilizer circuit simulator, Quantum 5, 497 (2021). [27] O. Higgott and C. Gidney, Sparse Blossom: correcting a million errors per core second with minimum-weight matching, Quantum 9, 1600 (2025). [28] D. Horsman, A. G. Fowler, S. Devitt, and R. V. Me-ter, Surface code quantum computing by lattice surgery, New Journal of Physics 14 , 123011 (2012). [29] P. Jordan and E. Wigner, Über das paulische Äquiv-alenzverbot, Zeitschrift für Physik (in German) 47 , 631 (1928). 12 

> Appendix A: Basics of Majorana code theory

The purpose of this section is to summarize notions from Majorana graph theory that are not standard knowledge in surface code error correction theory. For detailed discussion of theory [2].  

> 1. Majorana fermions, fermions and Pauli matrices

Consider a qubit, which is nothing but a two level sys-tem. All qubit operations can be described in the lan-guage of fermion creation/annihilation operators c†, c ,that satisfy, 

c†c + cc † = 1 , c2 = 0 . (A1) The same description is also realized in terms of a pair of Majorana fermion operators, α1, α 2, where αj = α† 

> j

,and 

αj αk + αkαj = 2 δjk , (A2) then fermion creation/annihilation operators can be in-troduced as, 

c† = 12 (α2 + iα 1), c = 12 (α2 − iα 1). (A3) A Majorana bilinear measures fermion parity iα 2α1 =1 − 2c†c = ( −1) c†c. Remarkably, α1 and α2 can be spa-tially separated. In this way a pair of Majorana fermions encode one qubit non-locally. For a single qubit the algebra Pauli operators, X, Y, Z 

matches Majorana fermions, 

X = α1, Y = α2, Z = −iα 1α2, (A4) and it is tempting to say that the spin problem is reduced to non-interacting fermions. However, Pauli operators on different qubits commute whereas Majo-rana operators anti-commute. This difficulty can be ef-fectively bypassed by introduction the Jordan-Wigner string [29]. In 2D Jordan-Wigner strings become too cumbersome to be useful. We adopt representation of spin operators fundamentally different from Eq. (A4). Namely, we first double the Hilbert space by consid-ering four Majorana fermions, αN , α E , α S , α W , labeled North, East, South, West, respectively, see Fig. 13. The identification with Pauli operators shown pictorially in Fig. 13 is chosen to satisfy Pauli algebra, 

X ∈ { iα N αW , −iα S αE },Z ∈ { iα N αS , −iα E αW }, (A5) 

Y ∈ { iα S αW , −iα N αE }.

We mean that if any representatives for X, Y, Z are cho-sen from the sets above, they will form a Pauli algebra. Gluing identical representations of Pauli operators in terms of Majorana fermions requires the wave function to satisfy the constraint, 

αN αE αS αW |ψ⟩ = |ψ⟩ . (A6) that reduces the Hilbert space of to that of a single qubit.  

> 2. Majorana vs Pauli stabilizer code

Consider a stabilizer of a standard surface code, Fig. 13, that has a form in a symmetric basis, 

B = Z1X2Z3X4. (A7) Substituting Majorana representation from eq. (A5) and regrouping Majorana operators we obtain, 

B = τ12 τ23 τ34 τ41 , (A8) where we introduced link parity operators, 

τjk = iα j αk, (A9) connecting qubits j and k. Here the Majorana fermion cardinal direction index, North, East, South, West, is augmented with the qubit index, such that for example, 

τ14 = iα 1S α4N . The order of Majorana fermions in the definition of τjk is important to determine the correct sign. The sign is prescribed by a Kasteleyn field, ZK 

> 2

,formally described in Ref. [2]. For the purposes of this work such details are not necessary we refer interested readers to Ref. [2]. We now have a procedure that maps between a Majorana graph and stabilizer code: each qubit is replaced with a diamond representing four Ma-jorana fermions, then stabilizers are formed by loops of link parity operators. The constraints Eq. (A6) apply at every qubit and act similarly to a Gauss law. The stabilizer condition 

B(P ) |ψ⟩ = |ψ⟩ , (A10) resembles Eq. (A6). However, unlike the latter which is absolute the former describes the protected compu-tational space of the code and may be violated. The constraints in Eq. (A10) correspond to the absence of flux, or flatness condition. The stabilizer B is a product of link parity operators, Eq. (A8), that form a loop and is an analog of a loop integral of a gauge field where the emergent gauge field operators Z(S)2 are link parity operators Eq. (A9). Surface code maps onto a set of Majorana dimers (links). The bulk of the standard surface code C consists of dimerized Majoranas which are essentially frozen by the conditions Eq. (A6) for each qubit and Eq. (A10) for each stabilizer. Note that Majorana fermions on corner qubits have only three links rather than four, see Fig. 13 right. There are four such undimerized Majo-rana fermions in total. However, they satisfy even par-ity constraint Eq. (A6) and therefore surface code stores 13     

> S
> W
> E
> N
> Z
> Z
> X
> X
> qubit
> N
> S
> EW
> ZX
> ZX
> FIG. 13. Construction of the Majorana graph of a distance 3 surface code. From left to right: (i) Mapping a qubit into four Majorana fermions, red dots labeled with cardinal directions N, E, S, W; Bilinears of Majorana fermions corresponding corresponding to single qubit Pauli operators Eq. (A5) are shown as colored lines. Arrows show the order of Majorana fermions in the definition of the Pauli. (ii) Diamond graphical notation for the qubit. (iii) A pair of qubits connected by a Majorana dimer. (iv) Majorana graph for distance 3 code.

only one logical qubit. Logical operators are determined analogously to Eq. (A5) with the difference that the Ma-jorana fermions correspond to different corner qubits. Removing a single link from a code C creates a new code C′ that has a pair of undimerized Majoranas σ1,2,see Fig. 14. In this configuration the two stabilizers 

B1, B2 of C that shared the removed edge are replaced with a single stabilizer equal to their product B1B2 in 

C′. As a result the computational space is doubled: in addition to vacuum, B1 |ψ⟩ = B2 |ψ⟩ = |ψ⟩, there is a fermion ε state characterized by B1 |ψ⟩ = B2 |ψ⟩ =

− | ψ⟩. The latter is the familiar ε excitation from the theory of surface code corresponding to two adjacent stabilizer violations [5]. The relationship between the two codes, C0 and C′, is described by the fusion rule in Eq. (1), 

σ × σ = 1 + ε. (A11) Indeed, removing a link creates a pair of σ regardless of the original state being vacuum or a single fermion 

ε. Conversely, measuring two stabilizers B1 and B2 in-stead of one B1B2, i.e. restoring the dimer link results in either vacuum or a fermion, depending on the state of the pair of σ. The Majorana bilinear operator corre-sponding to the link iσ 1σ2 = ( −1) ε†ε measures fermion density by construction. It is natural to ask which op-erators flip the parity, namely creation and annihilation operators, that are related to Majorana operators by Eq. (A3), ε = 12 (σ2 − iσ 1). ε corresponding to different dimer links anti-commute. The same fact is encoded as a fusion rule Eq. (1).     

> B1B2B1B2
> FIG. 14. Left: A region of the Majorana graph of a surface code. Right: The same as left with a single Majorana dimer removed.

Removing a link from a surface code creates a pair of lattice dislocation defects: vertices with degree three on the graph whereas in the bulk of the surface code all graph vertices have degree four. These defects can be separated spatially without creating additional de-gree three defects by creating a dislocation line between them, see Fig. 5. Because the Majorana description is exact on the lattice these degree three vertices host undimerized Majorana fermions, which are point-like particles on the graph. In Ref. [2] it was shown that Ma-jorana fermions hosted by such degree three vertices in the surface code are bound to a flux Z(K)2 . Therefore the Majorana fermions behave as Ising non-Abelian anyons. Spatially separated defects therefore form logical qubits. 14 The fusion rule Eq. (1) suggests that Majorana fermion is the fundamental degree of freedom in the surface code in the sense that all other excitations are emergent from them. Eq. (1) describes the emergence of fermion ε. Two fermions sharing a stabilizer plaque-tte correspond to two stabilizer violations. Such stabi-lizer violations carry flux Z(S)2 and therefore are Abelian anyons [5]. In this sense the latter particles are emergent from fermions ε. In absence of bulk Majorana fermions such stabilizer violations are called e and m. However, in presence of undimerized Majorana fermions in the bulk particles e and m are no welllonger defined: if e or 

m is braided around σ the geometry of the lattice with a dislocation transforms e into m and vice versa. It is more convenient therefore to use equivalent and simpler description in terms of ε fermions for the purpose of error analysis. One qubit Pauli errors are Majorana bilinears on a single qubit Eq. (A5). It therefore creates pairs of fermions ε. Strings of fermions end with stabilizer vio-lations. Such strings correspond to ’t Hooft lines in the gauge field theory, introduced in the main text. Fermion parity requires that ’t Hooft line crosses an even num-ber of links. An ’t Hooft line that is either closed or starts and ends at a boundary does not create stabilizer violations. An ’t Hooft line that encloses an even num-ber of undimerized Majorana fermions measures fermion parity. Such lines therefore correspond to undetectable errors and need to be accounted in the computation of code distance. The specific procedure for computing the distance is described in the main text. In Ref. [2] it was shown that an ’t Hooft loop en-closing two undimerized Majorana fermions is equiva-lent to Wilson line: the minimal length path on the graph that connects Majorana fermions. In many ge-ometries and specifically for bulk Majorana fermions far from boundaries Wilson lines correspond to the shortest undetectable error. This identification between Wilson and ’t Hooft lines also provides an intuitive picture for undetectable error: it corresponds to a transport of a fermion ε from one Majorana to another. 

> Appendix B: Circuit slices

We present the full measurement circuit for the most complicated code in the virtual particle braid Fig. 11; the others are constructed similarly. This circuit both extracts syndromes, and measures the fusion outcomes as in Fig. 7. It consists of two repeated cycles, which between them extract all the stabilizers and fusion outcomes. 15 

> (a) Cycle 1.
> (b) Cycle 2.

FIG. 15. Measurement circuits for the 5th stabilizer configuration of the braid shown in Fig. 11. The single-qubit gates depend on the stabilizer basis, but are chosen precisely as in Fig. 8. The only remaining choice is the particular pattern and ordering of the 2-qubit gates, which is shown here. Measurement and subsequent resets on ancilla qubits are shown as white triangles.